THE MAN IN THE STALLS

A PLAY IN ONE ACT



THE PERSONS OF THE PLAY

HECTOR ALLEN
ELIZABETH ALLEN (BETTY)
WALTER COZENS


_This play was produced
at the Palace Theatre
on October 6, 1911_



THE MAN IN THE STALLS


_The sitting-room of a little flat in Shaftesbury Avenue. At back
     is a door leading to the dining-room--it is open, and the
     dinner-table is in full view of the audience. To the extreme
     right is another door, leading to the hall._

     _The place is pleasantly and prettily, though quite
     inexpensively, furnished. To the left, at angles with the
     distempered wall, is a baby-grand piano; the fireplace, in which
     a fire is burning merrily, is on the same side, full centre. To
     the right of the door leading to the dining-room is a small
     side-table, on which there is a tray with decanter and glasses;
     in front of this, a card-table, open, with two packs of cards on
     it, and chairs on each side. Another table, a round one, is in
     the centre of the room--to right and to left of it are
     comfortable armchairs. Against the right wall is a long sofa;
     above it hang a few good, water-colours and engravings; on the
     piano and the table there are flowers. A general appearance of
     refinement and comfort pervades the room; no luxury, but evidence
     everywhere of good taste, and the countless feminine touches that
     make a room homelike and pleasant._

     _When the curtain rises,_ HECTOR ALLEN, _a youngish man of
     forty, with an attractive intellectual face, is seen standing by
     the dining-table in the inner room, draining his liqueur-glass,
     with_ WALTER COZENS _to the right of him, lighting a cigarette._
     WALTER _is a few years younger than his friend, moderately
     good-looking, with fine, curly brown hair and a splendid silky
     moustache. His morning-clothes are conspicuously well-cut--he is
     evidently something of a dandy;_ HECTOR _wears a rather shabby
     dress-suit, his boots are awkward, and his tie ready-made._
     BETTY, _a handsome woman of thirty, wearing a very pretty
     tea-gown, is talking to the maid at the back of the dining-room._

     HECTOR _puts down his glass and comes into the sitting-room,
     followed by_ WALTER. HECTOR _is puffing at a short, stumpy little
     black cigar._

HECTOR [_Talking as he comes through, continuing the conversation--he
walks to the fireplace and stands with his back to it._] I tell you, if
I'd known what it meant, I'd never have taken the job! Sounded so fine, to
be reader of plays for the Duke's Theatre--adviser to the great Mr.
Honeyswill! And then--when the old man said I was to go to all the first
nights--why, I just chortled! "It's the first nights that show you the
grip of the thing--that teach you most"--he said. Teach you! As though
there were anything to learn! Oh my stars! I tell you, it's a dog's life!

WALTER. [_Sitting to left of the round table._] I'd change places with
you, sonny.

HECTOR. You would, eh? That's what they all say! Four new plays this week,
my lad--one yesterday, one to-day--another to-morrow, and the night after!
All day long I'm _reading_ plays--and I spend my nights seeing 'em! D'you
know I read about two thousand a year? Divide two thousand by three
hundred and sixty five. A dog's life--that's what it is!

WALTER. Better than being a stockbroker's clerk--you believe _me!_

HECTOR. Is it? I wish _you_ could have a turn at it, my bonny boy! _Your_
hair'd go grey, like mine! And look here--what are the plays to-day?
They're either so chock-full of intellect that they send you to sleep--or
they reek of sentiment till you yearn for the smell of a cabbage!

WALTER. Well, you've the change, at any rate.

HECTOR. [_Snorting._] Change? By Jove, give me a Punch and Judy show on
the sands--or performing dogs! Plays--I'm sick of 'em! And look here--the
one I'm off to to-night. It's adapted from the French--well, we know what
_that_ means. Husband, wife and mistress. Or wife, husband, lover. That's
what a French play means. And you make it English, and pass the Censor, by
putting the lady in a mackintosh, and dumping in a curate!

BETTY. [_Coming in, and closing the door leading to the dining-room._] You
ought to be going, Hector.

     [_She, stands listening for a moment, then goes through the other
     door into the hall._

HECTOR. [_Disregarding her, too intent on his theme._] And I tell you, of
the two, I prefer the home-made stodge. I'm sick of the eternal triangle.
They always do the same thing. Husband strikes attitudes--sometimes he
strikes the lover. The lover never stands up to him--why shouldn't he? He
would--in real life. [BETTY _comes back, with his overcoat and
muffler--she proceeds affectionately to wrap this round his neck, and
helps him on with his coat, he talking all the time._] He'd say, look
here, you go to Hell. _That's_ what he'd say--well, there you'd have a
situation. But not one of the playwriting chaps dares do it. Why not, I
ask you? There you'd have truth, something big. But no--they're
afraid--think the public won't like it. The husband's got to down the
lover--like a big tom-cat with a mouse--or the author'd have to sell one
of his motor-cars! That's just the fact of it!

BETTY. [_Looking at the clock on the mantelpiece._] Twenty-five past,
Hector.

HECTOR. [_Cheerily._] All right, my lass, I'm off. By-bye, Walter--keep the
old woman company for a bit. Good-bye, sweetheart. [_He kisses her._]
Don't wait up. Now for the drama. Oh, the dog's life!

     [_He goes._ BETTY _waits till the hall door has banged, then she
     sits on the elbow of_ WALTER'S _chair, and rests her head on his
     shoulder._

BETTY. [_Softly._] Poor Hector!

WALTER. [_Uncomfortably._] ... Yes ...

BETTY. Doesn't it make you feel dreadful when he talks like that? [_She
kisses him; then puts her arms round his neck, draws his face to her, and
kisses him again, on the cheek._] Doesn't it?

     [_She nestles contentedly closer to him._

WALTER. [_Trying to edge away._] Well, it does. Yes.

BETTY. [_Dreamily._] I--like it.

WALTER. Betty!

BETTY. Yes, I like it. I don't know why. I suppose I'm frightfully wicked.
Or the danger perhaps--I don't know.

WALTER. [_Making a futile effort to get up._] Betty--

BETTY. [_Tightening her arms around him._] Stop there, and don't move. How
smooth your chin is--_his_ scrapes. Why don't husbands shave better? Or is
it that the forbidden chin is always smoother? Poor old Hector! If he
could see us! He hasn't a suspicion. I think it's lovely--really, I do. He
leaves us here together, night after night, and imagines you're teaching
me bridge.

WALTER. [_Restlessly._] So I am. Where are the cards?

BETTY. [_Caressing him._] Silly, have you forgotten that this is
Tuesday--Maggie's night out? She's gone--I told her she needn't wait to
clear away. We've arranged master's supper. Master! _You're_ my master,
aren't you?

WALTER. ... I don't know what I am ...

BETTY. Oh yes you do--you're my boy. Whom I love. There. [_She kisses him
again, full on the lips._] That was a nice one, wasn't it? Poor old
Hector, sitting in his stall--thinks he's so wonderful, knows such a lot!
Yes, Maggie's out--with _her_ young man, I suppose. The world's full of
women, with their young men--and husbands sitting in the stalls.... And I
suppose that's how it always has been, and always will be.

WALTER. [_Shifting uneasily._] Don't, Betty--I don't like it. I mean, he
has such confidence in us.

BETTY. Of course he has. And quite rightly. Aren't you his oldest friend?

WALTER. [_With something of a groan._] I've known him since I was seven.

BETTY. The first man he introduced me to--his best man at the wedding--do
you remember coming to see us during the honeymoon? I liked you _then._

WALTER. [_Really shocked._] Betty!

BETTY. I did. You had a way of squeezing my hand.... And then when we came
back here. You know it didn't take me long to discover--

WALTER. [_Protesting._] I scarcely saw you the first two or three years!

BETTY. No--you were afraid. Oh I thought you so silly! [_He suddenly
contrives to release himself--gets up, and moves to the card-table._] Why,
what's the matter?

WALTER. [_At the table, with his back to her._] I hate hearing you talk
like this.

BETTY. Silly boy! [_She rises, and goes to him; he has taken a cigarette
out of the box on the table, and stands there, with his head bent, tapping
the cigarette against his hand._] Women only talk "like this," as you call
it, to their lovers. They talk "like that" to their husbands--and that's
why the husbands never know. That's why the husbands are always sitting in
the stalls, looking on. [_She puts her arms round him again._] Looking and
not seeing.

     [_She approaches her lips to his--he almost fretfully unclasps
     her arms._

WALTER. Betty--I want to say a--serious word ...

BETTY. [_Looking fondly at him._] Well, isn't what _I'm_ saying serious?

WALTER. I'm thirty-eight.

BETTY. Yes. I'm only thirty. But I'm not complaining.

WALTER. Has it ever occurred to you--

     [_He stops._

BETTY. What?

     [WALTER _looks at her--tries to speak, but cannot--then he breaks
     away, goes across the room to the fireplace and stands for a
     moment looking into the fire. She has remained where she was, her
     eyes following him wonderingly. Suddenly he stamps his foot
     violently._

WALTER. Damn it! DAMN it!

BETTY. [_Moving towards him in alarm._] What's the matter?

WALTER. [_With a swift turn towards her._] I'm going to get married.

BETTY. [_Stonily, stopping by the round table._] You ...

WALTER. [_Savagely._] Going to get married, yes. Married, married!

     [_She stands there and doesn't stir--doesn't speak or try to
     speak; merely stands there, and looks at him, giving no sign. Her
     silence irritates him; he becomes more and more violent, as
     though to give himself courage._

WALTER. You're wonderful, you women--you really are. Always contrive to
make us seem brutes, or cowards! I've wanted to tell you this a dozen
times--I've not had the pluck. Well, to-day I must. Must, do you hear
that?... Oh, for Heaven's sake, say something.

BETTY. [_Still staring helplessly at him._] You ...

WALTER. [_Feverishly._] Yes, I, I! Now it's out, at least--it's spoken! I
mean to get married, like other men--fooled, too, I dare say, like the
others--at least I deserve it! But I'm tired, I tell you--tired--

BETTY. Of me?

WALTER. Tired of the life I lead--the beastly, empty rooms--the meals at
the Club. And I'm thirty-eight--it's now or never.

BETTY. [_Slowly._] And how about--me?

WALTER. You?

BETTY. [_Passionately._] Yes. Me. Me!

WALTER. You didn't think this would last for ever?

BETTY. [_Nodding her head._] I did--yes--I did. Why shouldn't it?

WALTER. [_Working himself into a fury again._] Why? You ask that? Why? Oh
yes, it's all right for _you_--you've your home and your husband--I'm
there as an--annexe. To be telephoned to, when I'm wanted, at your beck
and call, throw over everything, come when you whistle. And it's not only
that--I tell you it makes me feel--horrid. After all, he's my--friend.

BETTY. He has been that always. You didn't feel--horrid--before.... Who is
she?

WALTER. [_Shortly, as he turns back to the fire._] That doesn't matter.

BETTY. Yes, it does. Who?

WALTER. [_Fretfully._] Oh, why should we--

BETTY. I want to know--I'm _entitled_ to know.

WALTER. [_Still with his back to her._] Mary Gillingham.

BETTY. Mary Gillingham!

WALTER. [_Firmly, swinging round to her._] Yes.

BETTY. That child, that chit of a girl!

WALTER. She's twenty-three.

BETTY. Whom I introduced you to--my own friend?

WALTER. [_Grumbling._] What _has_ that to do with it? And besides ...
[_He suddenly changes his tone, noticing how calm she has become--he takes
a step towards her, and stands by her side, at the back of the table, his
voice becomes gentle and affectionate._] But I say, really, you're taking
it awfully well--pluckily. I knew you would--I knew I was an ass to be
so--afraid.... And look here, we'll always be pals--the very best of pals.
I'll ... never forget--never. You may be quite sure ... of that. I want to
get married--I do--have a home of my own, and so forth--but you'll still
be--just the one woman I really have loved--the one woman in my life--to
whom I owe--everything.

BETTY. [_With a mirthless laugh._] Do you tell all that--to Mary
Gillingham?

WALTER. [_Pettishly, as he moves away._] Do I--don't be so absurd.

BETTY. You tell _her_ she is the only _girl_ you have loved.

WALTER. [_Moving back to the fire, with his back to her._] I tell her--I
tell her--what does it matter what I tell her? And one girl or
another--she or someone else--

BETTY. But you haven't answered my question--what's to become of me?

WALTER. [_Angrily, facing her._] Become of you! Don't talk such nonsense.
Because it is--really it is. You'll be as you were. And Hector's a
splendid chap--and after all we've been frightfully wrong--treating him
infernally badly--despicably. Oh yes, we have--and you know it. Lord,
there've been nights when I have--but never mind that--that's all over! In
future we can look him in the face without feeling guilty--we can--

BETTY. [_Quietly._] _You_ can.

WALTER. What do you mean?

BETTY. _You_ can, because of this girl. Oh, I know, of course! You'll come
here three or four times--then you'll drop off--you'll feel I'm not quite
the woman you want your wife to know.

WALTER. [_With genuine feeling, as he impulsively steps towards her._]
Betty, Betty, what sort of cad do you take me for? What sort of cad, or
bounder? Haven't I told you I'd never forget--never? And you think you'll
pass out of my life--that I _want_ you to? Why, good Heaven, I'll be your
best friend as long as I live. Friend--yes--what I always should have
been--meant to be! And Hector. Why, Betty, I tell you, merely talking
to-night, as I've done, has made me feel--different--sort of--lifted--a
load. Because I've always had it--somewhere deep down in me--when I've
thought of--him.

BETTY. [_Calmly._] Liar.

WALTER. [_Falling back._] Betty!

BETTY. Liar--yes. Why these stupid, silly lies? "Always, deep down in me!"
Where was it, this beautiful feeling, when you got me to go to your rooms?

WALTER. [_Harshly._] We needn't--

BETTY. I liked you--I've said that--I liked you from the first. But I was
straight enough. Liked you, of course--but I had no idea, not the
slightest.... Thought it fun to play the fool, flirt just a bit. But it
was you, you, _you_ who--

WALTER. [_Breaking in sulkily and stamping his foot._] Never mind about
who it was.

BETTY. [_Passionately._] Never mind! You dare!

WALTER. [_Doggedly._] Yes--I dare. And look here--since you force me to
it--that's all rot--yes, it is--just rot. Just as you like it now, hearing
Hector ask me to stop with you, and kissing me the moment his back is
turned--so you met me halfway, and more than halfway.

BETTY. You cur!

WALTER. That's what a woman always says, when a man speaks the truth.
Because it _is_ the truth--and you know it. "The way I squeezed your
hand!" D'you think I _meant_ to squeeze it--in a way! Why, as there's a
Heaven above me, you were as sacred to me--as my own sister!

BETTY. [_Quietly, as she sits, to right of the table._] What I'm
wondering is--you see, you're the only lover I've had--what I wonder is,
when a man breaks off, tells a woman he's tired of her, wants to get
married--does he _always_ abuse the woman--

WALTER. [_Sulkily._] I haven't--

BETTY. Degrade, and throw mud on, the love she has had for him?

WALTER. [_With a bitter shrug._] Love--

BETTY. [_Passionately, as she springs to her feet._] Love, love, yes,
you--cruel man! Love, what else? I adore you, don't you know that? Live
for you! would give up everything in the world--everything, everything!
And Walter, Walter! If it's only _that_--that you want a home--well, let's
go off together. He'll divorce us--we can get married. Don't go away, and
leave me here, alone with him! I couldn't stand it--Walter, I couldn't, I
couldn't!

     [_She goes eagerly to him, flings her arms round his neck, and a
     dry sob bursts from her._

WALTER. [_Very gently._] Betty, Betty, you've been so brave ... Betty,
dear, the horrid things I've said were only to make you angry, to make you
feel what a brute I was, how well you're rid of me. Oh, I'm not proud of
myself! But look here, we must be sensible--we must, really.... You know,
if you were divorced--if I were the co-respondent in a divorce case--I'd
lose my berth, get the sack--

BETTY. [_Clinging to him._] We could go to Australia--anywhere--

WALTER. I've no money.

BETTY. [_With a sudden movement, raising her head and leaving him._] And
Mary Gillingham has lots?

WALTER. It's not for her money that I--

BETTY. [_With a start._] You love her?

WALTER. [_Dropping his head, and speaking under his breath._] Yes.

BETTY. [_Wringing her hands._] You do, you do?

WALTER. Yes, that's the truth--I do. Oh, Betty I'm so frightfully
sorry--

BETTY. [_With a groan._] Then you don't love me any more ...

WALTER. It's not that. But you see--

BETTY. [_Moaning._] You don't, you don't!

     [_She stands there, crushed, overwhelmed, dry-eyed, broken moans
     escaping from her; suddenly she hears a key turning in the lock
     of the hall-door outside, and rushes to the card-table._

BETTY. Hector! Quick, quick--the cards!

     [WALTER _flies to the table, and sits by her side. He seizes one
     pack and proceeds to shuffle it, she is dealing with the other.
     All this takes only a second._ HECTOR _comes in--they both spring
     up._

BETTY. Hector! You're not ill?

HECTOR. [_Kissing her._] Play postponed, my child--bit of luck! When I got
to the theatre I found that the actor-manager's car had collided with a
cab outside the stage-door--he was thrown through the window--there's a
magnificent exit for you! and has been cut about a bit. Nothing serious.
But the play's postponed for a week. Bit of luck!

WALTER. [_Sitting._] Not for him.

HECTOR. Oh _he_ has had luck enough--tons of it! I'll get into a
jacket--then we'll have some bridge. See what progress you've made, Betty!

     [_He hurries out, and closes the door._

BETTY. [_Producing a little mirror from her bag, looking into it,
touching her hair._] We were only just in time.

WALTER. [_Eagerly, as he bends across the table._] You're splendid--you
are--splendid!

BETTY. Yes. All very nice and comfortable for you--isn't it? [_She puts
the mirror back into the bag._]

WALTER. [_Coaxingly._] Betty.

BETTY. To-morrow you'll go to her--or to-night perhaps--

WALTER. To-night--ridiculous! At this hour!

BETTY. She's a deceitful little cat. I saw her last week--she never told
me--

WALTER. I don't think she knew. I only proposed to-day.

BETTY. [_Flinging herself back in her chair, and opening wide eyes._]
You--proposed--to-day!

WALTER. [_Very embarrassed._] Yes--I mean--

BETTY. You--proposed--to-day! And waited till she had accepted you--to
tell _me_--

WALTER. [_Eagerly._] Don't be so silly--come, come, he'll be back in a
minute.... And, believe me, I'm not worth making a fuss about!

BETTY. [_Looking contemptuously at him._] That's true.

WALTER. Yes, it is, worse luck! I deserve all you've said to me. And
you'll be ... much better ... without me.

BETTY. Better?

WALTER. Yes, better, better--any way you choose to put it! I'm a--but
never mind that!--Look here--you'd like me to stop?

BETTY. He wants to play bridge.

WALTER. Don't you think that I--

BETTY.[_Hearing_ HECTOR _coming._] Sh.

    [HECTOR _comes in--she is idly tossing the cards about._ HECTOR
    _has put on a smoking-jacket--he comes in, very jolly, fussing
    around, rubbing his hands, so glad to be home. He sits, to the
    right of_ BETTY.

HECTOR. Now for a game!

     [_He seizes a pack, and spreads out the cards._

BETTY. [_Leaning back._] Not sure that I want to play.

HECTOR. Don't be disagreeable, Betty! Why?

BETTY. [_Listlessly, as she rises and moves across the room._] No fun,
being three.

HECTOR. Good practice for you. Come on.

BETTY. [_Leaning against the other table, and turning and facing them._]
Besides, _he_ has something to tell you.

HECTOR. Walter?

BETTY. Yes.

HECTOR. [_Looking inquiringly at_ WALTER.] To tell _me?_ What is it?

BETTY. That he's engaged.

HECTOR. [_Shouting, as he leans across the table._] Never! Walter!
Engaged? You?

WALTER. [_Nervously._] Yes.

HECTOR. [_Noisily and affectionately._] You old scoundrel! You rascal and
villain! Engaged--and you don't come and tell _me_ first! Well
I--am--damned!

WALTER. [_Trying to take it gaily._] I knew you'd chaff me about it.

HECTOR. Chaff you! Silly old coon! why I'm glad! Of course we shall miss
you--but marriage--it's the only thing, my boy--the only thing! Who is
she? Do I know her?

WALTER. [_Mumbling, as he fingers the cards._] A friend of Betty's--I
fancy you've met her--

HECTOR. Who?

BETTY. Mary Gillingham. We're the first to know--he only proposed to-day.

HECTOR. Gillingham, Gillingham.... Oh yes, I've seen her, just seen her,
but I don't remember.... I say, not the daughter of the sealing-wax man?

WALTER. Yes.

HECTOR. Then there's lots of tin! Fine! Oh you artful old dodger! Is she
pretty?

WALTER. So-So.

BETTY. [_Still leaning against the table, and looking at them both._]
She's excessively pretty. She has yellow hair and blue eyes.

HECTOR. [_Chuckling._] And she has caught old Wallie. The cynical old
Wallie who sniffed at women! Though perhaps it's the money--

BETTY. No. He's in love with her.

HECTOR. That's good. I'm glad. And I congratulate you--heartily, my boy.
[_He seizes_ WALTER'S _hand, and wrings it._] We must drink to it! [_He
gets up, goes to the side-table, and pours some whiskey into a tumbler._]
Charge your glass, Walter! [WALTER _rises and goes to the side-table._]
Ladies and gentlemen. I give you the bride and bridegroom! [_He fills the
glass from the syphon and passes it to_ WALTER, _then proceeds to fill his
own._] Betty, you must join us.

BETTY. [_Quietly._] No.

HECTOR. You can't toast him in water, of course. Has she cleared away yet?
I'll get you some Hock.

     [_He puts his glass down and moves to the door at back._

BETTY. Don't be so silly. I won't drink at all.

HECTOR. [_Amazed._] Not to old Walter?

BETTY. [_Steadily._] No.

HECTOR. Why?

BETTY. [_Almost jeeringly._] Because--old Walter--has been my lover.

HECTOR. [_Stopping, and staring at her._] What?

BETTY. [_Calmly, looking full at him._] My lover ... these last two years.

HECTOR. [_Staring stupidly at her._] He has been--

BETTY. [_Impatiently, as she taps the floor with her foot._] Yes, yes. How
often must I tell you? My lover--don't you know what that means? Why do
you stare at me with those fat goggle-eyes of yours? He has been my
lover--and now he has fallen in love with this girl and means to marry
her. That's all.

HECTOR. [_Turning towards_ WALTER, _who hasn't stirred from the
side-table._] What? You?

     [WALTER _remains motionless and silent._

HECTOR. [_In muffled tones, scarcely able to speak._] You! It's true what
this woman says?

BETTY. [_Contemptuously._] This woman! Don't be so melodramatic! Have you
forgotten my name?

HECTOR. [_Turning fiercely to her, roaring madly._] Silence, Jezebel!
[_She shrinks back, in alarm, towards the fire._] Your name! Wait a bit,
I'll tell you! [_He takes a step towards her--she crouches in terror
against the wall._] You shall hear what your name is! Just now I'm dealing
with _him._ [_He swings round to_ WALTER.] You there, you skunk and thief!
You, you lying hound! I was your best friend. So you've taken my wife,
have you? And now mean to go off and marry this girl. That's it? Oh, it's
so simple! Here--come here--sit down. Sit down, I tell you. Here, in this
chair. Shall I have to drag you to it? I want to keep my hands off you.
Here. [WALTER _has moved slowly towards him._ HECTOR _has banged down a
chair behind the centre table,_ WALTER _sits in it_--HECTOR _speaks over
his shoulder to_ BETTY.] And you--fetch pen and ink and paper--

BETTY. [_In abject panic._] Hector--

HECTOR. [_Turning fiercely and scowling at her._] If you speak to me I'll
brain you too. Just you go in there and fetch the things. D'you hear? Go.
[_She moves into the other room._ HECTOR _swings round to_ WALTER.] As for
you, you're a scoundrel. A rogue, a thief, a liar, a traitor. Of the very
worst kind, the blackest. Not an ordinary case of a husband and wife--I
trusted you--you were my best friend. You spawn, you thing of the gutter,
you foul-hearted, damnable slug!

     [BETTY _comes back, dragging her feet, carrying paper and
     envelopes and a stylograph--she puts them on the table._

HECTOR. Not that stylograph--that's mine--his dirty hands shan't touch
it--I could never use it again. Fetch _your_ pen--yours--you belong to
him, don't you? Go in and fetch it. D'you hear?

     [BETTY _goes into the inner room again._

HECTOR. My wife. And you the man I've done more for than for any one else
in the world. The man I cared for, you low dog. Used my house--came here
because it was dull at the Club--and took my wife? I don't know why I
don't kill you. I've the right. But I won't. You shall pay for it, my fine
fellow--you are going to pay--now.

     [BETTY _brings a pen and an inkstand; she places them on the
     table;_ HECTOR _seizes them and pushes them in front of_ WALTER.
     BETTY _slinks to the other side of the room, and stands by the
     sofa._

HECTOR. [_To_ WALTER.] Now you write. You hear? You write what I dictate.
Word for word. What's the old brute's name?

WALTER. Whose?

HECTOR. Whose! Her father, the sealing-wax man, old Gillingham?

WALTER. [_Staring._] Gillingham?

HECTOR. Gillingham. Yes. What is it?

WALTER. You want me to write to him?

HECTOR. [_Nodding._] To him. Who else? A confession? I've had that. His
name?

WALTER. [_Dropping the pen and half rising._] I won't--

HECTOR. [_Springing upon him in a mad fury, and forcing him back into the
chair._] You won't, you dog! You dare say that--to me! By Heaven, you
will! You'll lick the dust off this floor, if I tell you! You'll go on
your hands and knees, and crawl! Sit down, you! Sit down and take up your
filthy pen. So. [_Thoroughly cowed,_ WALTER _has taken up the pen again._]
And now--his name. Don't make me ask you again, I tell you, don't. What is
it?

WALTER. Richard.

HECTOR. Very well, Richard. So write that down. To Richard Gillingham. I
have to-day proposed to your daughter, and she has accepted me. Got that?
She has accepted me. But I can't marry her--can't marry her--because I
have seduced the wife of my friend Hector Allen--

WALTER. [_Appealingly, dropping his pen._] Hector!

HECTOR. [_Frantically gripping_ WALTER _by the throat, till he takes up
his pen again._] The wife of my friend Hector Allen--write it--and
plainly, you hound, plainly--so--and because I am taking the woman away
with me to-night.

BETTY. [_With a loud cry._] Hector!

HECTOR. [_Over his shoulder, watching_ WALTER _write._] Silence, over
there, you! Hold your tongue! Go into your room and put on your
things--we've done with you here! Take what you want--I don't care--you
don't show your face here again. And you--[_he taps his clenched hand
against_ WALTER'S _arm_] write. What are you stopping for? How far have
you got? [_He peers over_ WALTER'S _shoulder._] Because--I--am--taking--
the--woman--away--with--me--to-night.

BETTY. [_Beside herself, wringing her hands._] Hector, Hector--

HECTOR. [_Savagely, as he makes a half-turn towards her._] You still
there? Wait a bit. I'll come to you, when I've finished with him. If you
haven't gone and put on your things, you shall go off without them. Into
the street. You'll find other women there like you. [_He turns back to_
WALTER.] Here, you, have you written? [_He looks over_ WALTER'S
_shoulder._] Go on--I'm getting impatient. Go on, I tell you.
I--am--taking--the--

     [WALTER _is slowly writing down the words,_ HECTOR _standing over
     him;_ BETTY _suddenly bursts into a peal of wild, uproarious
     laughter, and lets herself fall into a chair to the left of the
     card-table._

HECTOR. [_Madly._] You!

     [_He leaves_ WALTER, _and almost springs at her._

BETTY. [_Brimming with merriment._] Oh, you old donkey! _How_ we have
pulled your leg!

HECTOR. [_Staring at her, stopping dead short._] You--

BETTY. [_Through her laughter, choking._] Hector, Hector! Conventional
situations! The usual stodge! The lover and husband! You goose, you
wonderful old goose!

     [WALTER, _with a mighty effort, has pulled himself together, and
     roars with laughter too. He jumps up._ HECTOR _is standing there
     blinking, paralysed._

WALTER. [_Merrily, to_ BETTY.] Oh really, you shouldn't. You've given it
away too soon!

BETTY. Too soon! He'd have strangled us. Did you ever see such a tiger?

WALTER. [_Chuckling hugely._] He didn't give the lover much chance to
stand up to him, did he?

BETTY. And _wasn't_ he original! Dog, hound, villain, traitor!

WALTER. To say nothing of Jezebel! Though, between ourselves, I think he
meant Messalina!

BETTY. And I was to go into the street. But he did let me fill my bag!

WALTER. I think the playwrights come out on top, I do indeed. [_He goes
to_ HECTOR, _and stands to left of him._] Hector, old chap, here's the
letter!

BETTY. [_Going to the other side of_ HECTOR, _and dropping a low
curtsey._] And please, Mr. Husband, was it to be a big bag, or a small
bag, and might I have taken the silver teapot?

     [HECTOR _has been standing there stupid, dazed, dumbfounded, too
     bewildered for his mind to act or thoughts to come to him; he
     suddenly bursts into a roar of Titanic, overwhelming laughter. He
     laughs, and laughs, staggers to the sofa, falls on it, rocks and
     roars till the tears roll down his cheeks. He sways from side to
     side, unable to control himself--his laughter is so colossal that
     the infection catches the others; theirs becomes genuine too._

BETTY. [_With difficulty, trying to control herself._] The letter! Old
Gillingham! "His name, scoundrel, his name!"

WALTER. [_Gurgling._] With his hand at my throat! Sit there, villain, and
write!

BETTY. "I'll deal with _you_ presently! Wait till I've finished with
_him!_"

WALTER. "Into the street!" At least, they _do_ usually say "into the
night!"

HECTOR. [_Rubbing his eyes and panting for breath._] Oh, you pair of
blackguards! Too bad--no, really too bad! It was! I fell in, I did! Oh,
Lord, oh, Lord, what a nightmare! But it wasn't right, really it
wasn't--no really! My Lord, how I floundered--head and shoulders--
swallowed it all! Comes of reading that muck every day--never stopped to
think! I didn't! Walter, old chap! [_He holds out his hand._] Betty! My
poor Betty! [_He draws her towards him._] The things I said to you!

BETTY. [_Carelessly eluding the caress._] At least admit that you're
rather hard on the playwriting people!

HECTOR. [_Getting up and shaking himself._] Oh, they be blowed! Well, you
_have_ had a game with me! [_He shakes himself again._] Brrrrr! Oh, my
Lord! What I went through!

BETTY. It _was_ a lark! you should have seen yourself! Your eyes starting
out of your head! You looked like a murderer!

HECTOR. By Jove, and I felt it! For two pins I'd have--

BETTY. And Mary Gillingham! _That's_ the funniest part! That you could
have thought _he_ was engaged--to _her!_

     [_Involuntarily the smile dies away on_ WALTER'S _face; he turns
     and stares at her; she goes on calmly._

BETTY. When she happens to be the one girl in this world he can't stand!

WALTER. [_With a movement that he can't control._] Betty!

BETTY. [_Turning smilingly to him._] No harm in my telling Hector--he
scarcely knows her! [_She swings round to_ HECTOR _again._] Why, Walter
simply _loathes_ the poor girl! That's what made it so funny! [_At the
mere thought of it she bursts out laughing again, and goes on speaking
through her laughter._] And I tell you--if you ever hear he's engaged to
_her_--why, you can believe the rest of the story too!

HECTOR. [_Laughing heartily as he pats_ WALTER _on the shoulder._] Poor
old Walter! And, d'you know, I was quite pleased at the thought of his
getting married! I was! [_He turns to him._] But it's better, old chap,
for us--we'd have missed you--terribly! [_With another pat on_ WALTER'S
_shoulder, he goes to the fire, and drops in the letter._] Mustn't leave
_that_ lying about! [_He turns._] Well, by Jove, if any one had told
me.... And drinking to him, and all!

BETTY. If you'll fetch me that glass of Hock now, I _will_ drink to him,
Hector. To Walter, the Bachelor!

HECTOR. [_Beaming._] So we will! Good. I'll get it.

     [_He bustles into the dining-room._

BETTY. [_Moving swiftly to_ WALTER.] Well, now's your time. One thing or
the other.

WALTER. [_Savagely._] You fiend!

BETTY. I'll go and see her to-morrow--see her constantly--

WALTER. Why are you doing this?

BETTY. You've ruined my life and his. At least, _you_ shan't be happy.

WALTER. And you imagine I'll come back to _you_--that we'll go on, you and
I?

BETTY. [_Scornfully._] No--don't be afraid! You've shown yourself to me
to-day. That's all done with--finished. _His_ friend now--with the load
off you--but never _her_ husband. Never!

     [HECTOR _comes bustling back, with the bottle of Hock, and a
     wine-glass that he gives to_ BETTY--_she holds it, and he fills
     it from the bottle._

HECTOR. Here you are, my girl--and now, where's my whiskey? [_He trots
round to the side table, finds his glass, and_ WALTER'S--_hands one to_
WALTER.] Here, Wallie--yours must be the one that's begun--I didn't have
time to touch mine! Here. [WALTER _takes it._] And forgive me, old man,
for thinking, even one minute--[_He wrings him by the hand._] Here's to
you, old friend. And Betty, to you! Oh, Lord, I just want this drink!

BETTY. [_In cold, clear tones, as she holds up her glass._] To Walter, the
Bachelor!

     [_She drains her glass;_ WALTER _has his moment's hesitation; he
     drinks, and with tremendous effort succeeds in composing his
     face._

HECTOR. [_Gaily._] To Walter, the Bachelor! [_He drinks his glass to the
dregs and puts it down._] And now--for a game.

WALTER. I think I--

HECTOR. [_Coaxingly._] Sit down, laddie--just one rubber. It's quite
early. Do. There's a good chap. [_They all sit:_ HECTOR _at back,_ BETTY
_to the left of him,_ WALTER _to the right--he spreads out the cards--they
draw for partners._] As we are--you and Betty--I've got the dummy. [_He
shuffles the cards_--BETTY _cuts--he begins to deal._] That's how I like
it--one on each side of me. Also I like having dummy. Now, Betty, play
up. Oh, Lord, how good it is, how good! A nightmare, I tell you--terrible!
And really you must forgive me for being such an ass. But the way you
played up, both of you! My little Betty--a Duse, that's what she is--a
real Duse! [_He gathers up his cards._] And the gods are kind to me--I've
got a hand, I tell you! I call NO TRUMPS!

     [_He beams at them--they are placidly sorting their cards. He
     puts his hand down and proceeds to look at his dummy, as the
     curtain falls._


CURTAIN